## Phases

### Clean Lifecycle

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>pre-clean</td>
    <td>executes processes needed prior to the actual project cleaning</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>clean</td>
    <td>remove all files generated by the previous build</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>post-clean</td>
    <td>executes processes needed to finalize the project cleaning
</td>
  </tr>
</table>


### Default Lifecycle

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>validate</td>
    <td>validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>initialize</td>
    <td>initialize build state, e.g. set properties or create directories.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>generate-sources</td>
    <td>generate any source code for inclusion in compilation.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>process-sources</td>
    <td>process the source code, for example to filter any values.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>generate-resources</td>
    <td>generate resources for inclusion in the package.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>process-resources</td>
    <td>copy and process the resources into the destination directory, ready for packaging.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>compile</td>
    <td>compile the source code of the project.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>process-classes</td>
    <td>post-process the generated files from compilation, for example to do bytecode enhancement on Java classes.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>generate-test-sources</td>
    <td>generate any test source code for inclusion in compilation.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>process-test-sources</td>
    <td>process the test source code, for example to filter any values.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>generate-test-resources</td>
    <td>create resources for testing.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>process-test-resources</td>
    <td>copy and process the resources into the test destination directory.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>test-compile</td>
    <td>compile the test source code into the test destination directory</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>process-test-classes</td>
    <td>post-process the generated files from test compilation, for example to do bytecode enhancement on Java classes. For Maven 2.0.5 and above.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>test</td>
    <td>run tests using a suitable unit testing framework. These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>prepare-package</td>
    <td>perform any operations necessary to prepare a package before the actual packaging. This often results in an unpacked, processed version of the package. (Maven 2.1 and above)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>package</td>
    <td>take the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>pre-integration-test</td>
    <td>perform actions required before integration tests are executed. This may involve things such as setting up the required environment.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>integration-test</td>
    <td>process and deploy the package if necessary into an environment where integration tests can be run.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>post-integration-test</td>
    <td>perform actions required after integration tests have been executed. This may including cleaning up the environment.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>verify</td>
    <td>run any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>install</td>
    <td>install the package into the local repository, for use as a dependency in other projects locally.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>deploy</td>
    <td>done in an integration or release environment, copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other developers and projects.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


### Site Lifecycle

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>pre-site</td>
    <td>executes processes needed prior to the actual project site generation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>site</td>
    <td>generates the project's site documentation</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>post-site</td>
    <td>executes processes needed to finalize the site generation, and to prepare for site deployment</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>site-deploy</td>
    <td>deploys the generated site documentation to the specified web server</td>
  </tr>
</table>



